[MUSIC PLAYING]
LILOU MACE: Hello, this
is Lilou for "Gaiam TV,"
and today in Denmark
near Copenhagen,
right before the
bridge actually--
NIELS HARRIET: To Sweden, yeah.
LILOU MACE: To Sweden.
This is fantastic.
And we're in your home.
Thank you, Niels.
NIELS HARRIT: You're welcome.
Thank you.
LILOU MACE: So today
with Niels Harrit,
and I think the best is that you
explain to us your background
and how you got to this topic
that we're going to talk about.
We're going to talk
about lies, truth, 9/11,
what has been really going on.
And I've heard of you
through other sources,
and I had to come and
interview you all the way here.
And I feel that this is going
to be very informative video.
So thank you for
having the courage
to speak out your truth.
NIELS HARRIT: My
name is Niels Harrit.
I'm 67-years-old, and I am
retired associate professor
of chemistry from the University
of Copenhagen. I still
have my office
though, so you call me
emeritus, professor emeritus.
I still have my office.
I still have research to do.
Over these 45 years, I have
taught chemistry on all levels
from elementary up to PhD level.
I have-- I have supervised, I
don't know, maybe 20-25 PhDs.
The number of master
degrees I have delivered
is-- I don't count.
I have published more than
60 papers in, believe me,
the best peer-reviewed journals.
And I'm still involved in
some very interesting research
together with my
physics colleagues
at the Niels Bohr
Institute of Copenhagen.
So this is my
professional status.
And-- but for today's subject, I
will say that 9/11-- I probably
experienced it in much the
same way as everybody else
in the Western Hemisphere.
I was appalled and
shocked by the events,
and I accepted the official
story without much speculation
and without much hesitation.
And the official story-- we're
talking about World Trade
Center predominantly--
the official story
was that the twin towers
were hit by two airliners
and subsequently collapsed
due to the impact.
I didn't think much
about it at that time.
Even though I
realized the-- what
do you say-- the--
the catastrophic-- the
magnitude of the event.
And-- and also what
happened subsequently
in terms of Denmark,
my country, getting
into the war in Afghanistan
and how nature got involved
is a story on its
own of which I was
not aware because much later.
But the years went by, and about
2007, I think it was, my wife
and I-- actually was my wife.
Somebody sent a DVD to
my wife, because she
has been involved in
environmental and peace
activism all her life.
I suppose this DVD was
sent to us anonymously.
And it took some time before we
eventually took a look at it.
And that was an eye opener.
It was a very decisive
moment, pivotal moment for me.
And that's what we're
going to talk about.
Because in that DVD,
there was a presentation
done by an American
physics professor
from Brigham Young
University in Utah.
His name is Steven Earl
Jones, and the presentation--
it was simply a recording
from a presentation he
was giving his own university.
And during that presentation,
he showed a building which--
obviously a skyscraper
which was coming down
completely symmetrical--
symmetrically
and for no apparent
reason at all.
This was what we later
learned as Building 7.
The point being that he
was talking about World
Trade Center destruction.
The point being that I thought--
and we are in Copenhagen,
Denmark-- we thought
and many people
still believe the World Trade
Center were the twin towers.
But World Trade
Center was a center.
I learned on that occasion.
Where the twin towers was
Number One, Number Two,
World Trade Center Three
was the Marriott Hotel
behind the twin
towers, 22 stories.
And World Trade Center
Four, Five, and Six
were relatively small building.
But this building, Building
7, was a huge building
for Danish standards at least.
We are talking about
a 47-story building,
186 meters-- I don't know
how many yards, feet that is.
But 100 and-- 186 meters
and a little less than half
the height of the Twin Towers.
And what I saw in this
video was this building
collapsing, as I told you,
completely symmetrically.
It was going down straight.
It took 6.5 seconds for
this building to collapse.
And the pictures
you saw it falling
exactly into its own footprint.
That means it's going
completely down like that.
Watching this video
by Steven E. Jones
caused me to have two problems.
The first one was that--
I realized that this
was World Trade Center.
And here was a building
which is much-- twice as
high as any building in
Denmark collapsing like that
at 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
This is seven hours after the
collapse of the north tower.
So this was a monumental event,
and why has this not been
shown on Danish television?
Why did I not know this?
That was shocking.
And the next thing
relates to my training
as an actual
scientist, because it
is my job-- I've been trained
to see my physical environment
with an analytical mind.
Whenever I see something,
I involuntarily try
to figure out how it's working.
And why does this happen?
Why does this happen?
This is the bend of any
natural scientist's nature.
And most of the time,
I'm doing pretty well.
I'm sorry, I must say.
But at this location, I
couldn't understand why
this building should collapse.
And believe me, once
you have seen it,
there's no way back in
having the same feeling.
Why is this building just
collapsing just like that?
So I had to look into it.
No way back.
And it took me a
couple of weeks,
actually, to realize the-- the
importance of what I had seen
and how this observation was
a key event in our lifetime
and how important it was.
It took a long time
to realize that.
And maybe we later
should go back
to this-- what do
you call this--
this time when it takes to--
the time of latency, actually.
The time it takes you
to realize things.
Because it takes time, and we
should return to this issue.
It takes time for you to
realize what is happening.
It took me about, say, six,
seven weeks when I realized
that I, as a scientist--
here in Denmark,
the government pays
your education.
And they had paid my
salary for 40 years just
to-- to be more clever.
So it was my duty, actually.
It was payback time to put
my expertise, my knowledge,
my understanding
into the service
of--of the society and tell
me what is going on here.
And this is what
I'm doing right now.
LILOU MACE: So tell us,
what have you found out?
NIELS HARRIT: In short-- the
short or the long version.
LILOU MACE: The long version.
NIELS HARRIT: The long version.
That's going to
be maybe too long,
so maybe we should just
a summary first, OK?
There were three skyscrapers
collapsing on that day.
The twin towers.
The first one was collapsing a
little bit before 10 o'clock.
The other one at half past 10.
The twin towers,
the South Tower was
collapsing-- collapsing first.
The North Tower
collapsing the latest.
And then this
Building Seven which
collapsed seven hours later.
And we are told that
these three collapses
were caused by the impact
of the two airliners.
That is a lie.
From a scientific point of view,
no matter how you twist or turn
the evidence which
is very important,
there is no physical
connection between the impact
of the two airliners
and the collapse
of the three skyscrapers.
It's simply not true.
So we have been told a lie.
And when I'm saying this, I'm
not referring to weaknesses.
I'm not referring to rumors.
I'm not referring
to assumptions.
I'm referring to the basic
laws of physics and chemistry.
The official version,
namely that these three
skyscrapers came down due to
fires, that is very short.
The official version that
the three skyscrapers
came down due two fires.
It is-- this explanation
is-- is violating
basic principles of science.
And I'm talking
about-- I have to bring
in Sir Isaac Newton,
the name of who
should be known to everybody.
His tomb is in Westminster
Abbey in London
for very good reasons.
Because he was one of the first
giants of natural science.
And he wrote a book
which came out in 1687.
It's called "Principia", and
it describes how bodies move
in the physical world here.
Fundamental laws.
And most people who have taken
physics courses in high school
have had heard about
Newton's Three Laws.
And for 300-- I have to make a
rough calculation-- 325 years,
these laws have
proven indispensable.
That you cannot break.
There's no exception
from Newton's Laws.
And the official explanation
is violating at least two
of these laws.
That is, I'm referring
to physical principles
which are so fundamental that
there is no way around them.
So the official explanation for
the collapses of World Trade
Center is a scientific fraud.
It's-- it's a lie.
That's the short version.
LILOU MACE: But tell
us about those laws.
NIELS HARRIT: Newton's Laws?
LILOU MACE: Yeah.
NIELS HARRIT: Oh.
LILOU MACE: In short
so we can get--
even though if we're
not all scientists,
we can get a little bit more.
NIELS HARRIT: Well, the easiest
thing here to understand
is the collapse of Building
Seven, the last one,
because that is the
most clean cut example.
And that's why-- the government,
it took them 7 years, actually,
to come with the technical
account for that collapse.
They postponed this
report for seven years
until they couldn't
hold back anymore.
Because what you saw is
this 47-story skyscraper
coming down, as I told you,
completely symmetrical.
And it's very easy to
make-- to measure how
fast this collapse is going.
And the 47th story, when it--
it-- when it starts to move,
it goes into what
we call free fall.
It means that it moves, it
accelerates to the ground,
with exactly the same speed
as an object falling freely.
I mean, let's-- try with myself.
We'll see.
Now, watch this.
OK, I release it.
OK, it goes like that.
There is no resistance.
It is falling
absolutely free fall,
and it's actually
accelerating when
it falls towards the ground.
This is what happened
to the 47th floor
of World Trade Center 7.
So the moment it
starts to move, there
is absolutely no supporting
structure left in the building.
Every-- and this building
was designed-- there were
24 core columns, very sturdy.
They were carrying
between 60% and 70%
of the weight of the building.
And then there were 57
perimeter columns all the way
in the-- in the perimeter.
Now, when the building
started to move,
all these columns
had to be removed.
There were nothing
supporting the 47th story.
If some idiot has been
standing on the 47th floor,
and released, say a
stone, out of the window,
the stone would have moved
at exactly the same speed
as the 47th story.
This can only be accomplished
by means of explosives.
This is what you call a
controlled demolition.
That is when you are taking
down skyscrapers on purpose.
You bring in explosives, you put
the explosives in the building.
And this has been done-- it
has to be done very accurately.
This is expert work.
And the collapse of World
Trade Center, the controlled
demolitions of
World Trade Center
are masterpieces in engineering.
They're-- it's so
brilliantly performed.
No building--
Building 7, 30% higher
than any building which, at
that time, had been demolished.
And the twin towers, of
course, three times higher
than any building at that time.
It would be different.
But the story of the
mechanism for the demolition
of the twin towers is different
from that of Building 7
which everybody can see just
from watching the videos.
But nobody has seen
Building Seven,
as I started to tell you.
It's not shown on
mainstream television.
So most people have not
seen Building Seven.
And already, at that
point, I mean you
and many other
people may have had
problems with the
physics classes
and the chemistry classes.
And the teacher was not
very good eventually
and you didn't understand
a thing and all
this mathematics stuff, OK.
But we can all count to three.
So already from the fact that
there were two airliners,
but there were three skyscrapers
collapsing on that day.
I mean, we can count
to three, can we?
Already from this fact,
you should realize
that there is something wrong.
And the way it is
collapsing is unambiguously
a controlled demolition.
And this can only be done
by means of explosives
and something else which
is called incendiaries.
We know about World Trade Center
that it is-- that actually
the steel columns were cut in--
by other means than explosives,
but explosives were used.
It is-- it is necessary for
accomplishing this completely
symmetrical and this free
fall feature of its collapse
to the ground.
This, I repeat, this
requires that at that moment,
all supporting structure
of the building is gone.
And since it's falling
completely symmetrically,
it means that it's
gone at the same time.
There's no way around this.
So that's why maybe somebody
don't show Building 7.
It's really the Achilles's
heel or, what you would say?
The smoking gun.
LILOU MACE: And that building,
it was--was it 5 o'clock?
Or much later?
NIELS HARRIT: It was 20
minutes past 5 o'clock
which means that--
now, we can go--
of course there's been a lot
of speculation and discussion.
Somebody said that-- that
when the Twin Towers were
collapsing, and we're
talking about 350,000
tons of concrete and steel.
I mean, this is like
a little earthquake.
It would be no surprise, say,
if the foundation of Building
Seven had been damaged, OK?
And maybe some of the debris
which is being thrown out
of the towers would have--
would have-- would have-- would
you say, compromised
Building Seven to an extent
that it would fall.
And-- and the first
response to that
would be would that be
reasonable to expect
with a seven hour delay?
Now, if Building
Seven had collapsed
due to shaking in
the ground, you would
expect an immediate action.
And-- but most
tellingly, actually,
is that the official report
on the Building Seven collapse
which came out of an
institution which is called
the National Institute of
Standards and Technology,
abbreviated NIST.
This report from
NIST in that they--
they themselves
exclude what we call
mechanical damage
of Building Seven
as a cause for its collapse.
That means the
official account do
not-- the official
report does not
count on any physical
damage of Building 7.
So that's one thing
you could rule out.
There's been a lot of-- of
course many speculation.
Other-- another
bloom, as we call it,
which was launched
in intermediate years
was the diesel tanks.
They had storage tanks for
the power emergency supplies.
There were diesel
tanks in the basement.
And somebody said, well,
the diesel tanks, they
fed the fires.
And that's what you had.
It was an inferno of fires.
NIST themselves rule
out this possibility
for different technical reasons.
So NIST claims that Building
7 fell due to ordinary office
fires, which there
were ordinary office--
office fires in the building.
But it was not a
roaring inferno.
There were random, small office
fires on six floors after two
o'clock in the afternoon.
And-- and the problem
with that explanation
is that it has-- there
are several problems.
But what should be
appreciated by everyone
is that it has never happened
before or after in history
that a steel frame high
riser-- and that is wha-- how--
what you call such a building.
We don't have them in Denmark.
We only use concrete.
But a steel frame high risesr--
that means a high riser built
around a steel skeleton--
buildings around this design
has never collapsed due to fire,
neither before or afterwards.
And of course, there have
been hundreds of fires
in buildings like that.
And what happens when you
have a fire in a high riser,
it means that the
firefighters, they come.
They go into the building.
The go to the floors
where the fires are.
And they put out the fires.
And firefighters,
they are brave.
They are courageous,
but they're not stupid.
And they're not suicidal.
They know that
buildings like that
do not collapse due to fire.
And if, again, I may bring
in a scientific principle.
Each fire which there's
been in a steel frame high
riser you could,
maybe cynically,
consider as an experiment.
And after each fire,
you make the observation
the building did not collapse.
When you've see this
100, 200, 300 times,
you draw the conclusion the
steel frame high risers simply
do not collapse due to fire.
Period.
And still, NIST,
National Institute
of Standards and
Technology, claim
that this happened for the
first, single, and only
time in history on that day.
Already from there, you
know that their report is
a fraud, a scientific cover up.
But of course, the scientists
can go into the report which
is huge, and point to all of the
mistakes, all the errors, all
the deliberate omissions,
all the lies, and all
the dead meat, all
the hot air which
is in these reports
and point out all--
But this is an academic
pastime really.
Because basically,
in sum, we must
characterized the
official, technical reports
as scientific fraud.
They're lying.
It is-- and this institute
I'm talking about
is not an independent
academic institution.
It is operating under
the Ministry of Commerce
in the United States and
the-- the-- the leadership
is appointed each time you
shift a new administration,
you have a new leadership.
And particularly, the-- the--
the control of this institution
was tightened up immediately
when George W. Bush--
W. Bush came in-- into office.
LILOU MACE: Tell us about
some of the-- the-- the debris
that you have found
or that were reported,
particularly, this red chip.
NIELS HARRIT: This
is more-- actually,
is an academic
footnote, because once--
what I've told you is that, I
cannot account for all of it,
but there are a whole
range of observations,
physics and chemistry,
which each of them imply
the World Trade Center was taken
down in controlled demolitions.
Now then, you can
start to speculate,
actually, how it was done.
And-- and one thing that you
use in controlled demolition,
of course, are explosives.
But there are other
means to cut steel beams,
and that is by means
of incendiaries.
And an incendiary is-- is--
is an energetic material which
works by means of heat
while an explosive
works by means of pressure.
Explose-- explosives,
they knock things apart.
But you can also destruct--
destruct material, buildings,
armor by means of heat.
That is, you're bringing
in a charge which
is-- eventually is so
hot that you simply
burn your way through it.
This is called an
incendiary, and it's
based on a chemical reaction
called the thermite reaction.
Steven E. Jones--
everybody who has
seen the collapse
of the Twin Towers
and eventually, if
they are informed,
also the collapse
of Building Seven
observe that these
collapses was accompanied
by huge dust clouds.
And that-- actually, that's
another observation which
points to controlled
demolition, because these dust
clouds expand in a fashion which
you only see from volcanoes.
It was not ordinary dust clouds.
They were burning hot.
People were actually
getting burns
from being exposed
to these dust clouds,
meaning that there is something
very special going on here.
Everything was pulverized
from all three skyscrapers
except for the steel.
Everything was
turned into-- now,
the first responders
and the cleanup workers,
they reported that
the biggest chunk I--
I've-- I've found was-- was
the keyboard of a telephone.
Everything was pulverized.
Also, the remains of
human beings-- they
were absolutely nothing left.
They were finding tiny, tiny
fractures of human bones
on the roofs of-- of-- of--
of the neighboring buildings.
On the rooftops
of Deutsche Bank,
actually many years later, they
found fractured bone fragments.
So meaning, this
alone, I'm just--
there's so many observations.
This alone means that
these poor people
were not caught by the falling
masses of the building.
They would blown apart.
So everything,
including the people,
were completely pulverized.
So there were
hundreds of thousands
of tons of what we
call World Trade
Center dust sprayed all over the
southern Manhattan on that day.
Everything.
And this dust was
characterized very
early on, actually,
by a private company
called the RJ Lee Group.
And their report-- first
report came out in 2003,
another report in 2004.
United States Geological
Survey in California,
they came out also
with a characterization
of the dust in 2005.
And from these reports--
Steven E. Jones,
I just mentioned him,
looked into these reports.
And there were some observations
which was just outrageous.
And in some pointed to
the-- to the occurrence
of extremely high temperatures
during the collapses
of this building.
Among other things, you
find-- you find in the dust
some very tiny, completely
round spheres of iron.
You don't find this in
ordinary building dust.
And this points
to the application
of thermite which I've just
explained and mentioned.
And what-- and
other observations
pointing in the same direction.
But the short and long
story is that Jones,
in late 2006 that
we have to look
into-- further into the dust.
Because maybe there's
something left.
When you have explosions or
when you apply incendiaries,
the reaction is never complete.
There's always something left.
If you have an act of terrorism
or whenever people are using
explosives, the police come to
the crime site and they can--
they can-- there are
always something left.
They can identify what
kind of explosive was used.
So Jones speculated
maybe there's
some unreactive thermite
left, so he took
a closer look into the dust.
And indeed, he found, what
we call, red-gray chips.
Now, I'm using-- I'm
holding up my finger here,
but the fact is, most of them--
they're less than a millimeter.
You need a microscope,
actually, to see them.
And also, you need a
magnet, because they
are attracted by-- by a magnet.
So what you do, you apply
a magnet to the dust.
You get out something.
Of course, what you get out are
also these small iron spheres.
They're magnetic.
But with them also, eventually,
if you look under a microscope,
you see these small chips.
Then there was a form--
a team of scientists
to investigate these chips.
I was invited to join this
team and was on board,
not on the initial findings
which was done by Jones alone,
but by-- in the characterization
and the investigation
of these chips.
It led to a
scientific publication
which came out in April 2009.
And the main conclusion here
is that these chips are-- were
unreacted thermitic
material, that is,
when you take it
and-- and heat it up.
At some point, at
some temperature, 430
degrees centigrade, it reacts.
And it forms the same iron
spheres which has been found
in abundance in the bulk dust.
And that's it.
So this is unreactive
thermitic material.
And I use this very
vague term intentionally,
because there's been a
lot of misunderstanding,
actually, about this finding.
I told you that we know that
incindiaries were used--
we know that the
thermite has been used
for cutting the steel beams.
Maybe not the red-gray
chips material.
Actually, I don't believe it.
And we also know that
explosives were used.
And the confusion comes in
because what we are talking
about here is what,
in a broad term
is called energetic materials,
and the thermite reaction
has a lot of energy in it.
But it's-- it is slow.
Explosives are not-- are
not particularly energetic.
People-- many people
might think that you have
a lot of energy in explosives.
No.
The point about explosives is
that their reaction is so fast.
It's very, very quick.
So-- and you develop
a gas super fast.
That's why you have
the explosion effect.
OK.
So in the early 90s
research started
to try to get the
chemical energy
from the thermite reaction and
convert it into an explosive.
And this is-- this is the
emergence of nanotechnology
which is a phrase which most
people have heard of at least.
The point here being is that
you can bring particles.
You can make them so small that
you are actually approaching
molecular dimensions, meaning
that if you have two reactants
who have to react, when
the particles are so small,
you can get them much
more intimately mixed.
So now, you can have the
thermite reaction running
as fast as an explosive.
And if you then add other
chemicals to the material,
you can produce a
gas, meaning that you
are getting the best of two
worlds in modern explosives.
You're getting the
best of two worlds.
You're getting the energy
from the thermite reaction
and-- but it's running
so fast that you
are making an explosive.
So the principle of the thermite
reaction, and we know this,
can be applied for
developing explosives.
And just the other day,
actually two weeks ago,
we found a patent from 1993
from Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory whether actually
patenting explosives based
on this technology-- not
exactly the same thing
as we found in the
red-gray chips.
The point being, and
that's the only point,
is that the thermite reaction
can be used for developing
explosives, but we
do not know actually
what kind of explosives were
used in World Trade Center.
We don't know.
LILOU MACE: But idea of it
being caused by the plane
and-- is totally,
totally absurd to you.
NIELS HARRIT:
That's totally out.
I-- I consider on
that conclusion,
I consider scientific
mainstream.
The only problem is that
nobody dares to talk about it,
because it is a
very, very bad career
move at all at a university
to-- to raise these questions.
All American universities
are dependent on government
funding.
You don't talk
about these things,
not even at the lunch table.
And Stephen Jones was
forced, actually-- he was
forced into early retirement.
Not kicked out.
I think he struck a fair deal.
And I must say-- I must
say that Brigham Young
University, actually,
in the course of events
were not unfair.
Because we had access to
all the equipment there,
and they had a
beautiful microscope.
This-- now I'm talking-- I'm
talking about instruments
which is of course--
LILOU MACE: Your toys.
NIELS HARRIT: Yeah.
Which is-- which is-- which
is actually decisive for--for
doing this kind of research.
And now we have a good
instrument at Copenhagen,
but at that time we didn't.
But the instrument at that time
which they had at Brigham Young
was very good and a very
good man operating it.
And he's still there.
So-- so actually, so Jones
had access to the equipment.
It was done on Brigham Young.
They actually had
the opportunity
to read our publication
prior to submission.
So they got the final word.
And-- and-- and they also
came with some reservations
which I actually was
quite happy about.
Because there were nine
authors on this--on this paper.
And you may imagine
one guy's in Australia,
and I'm sitting in
Copenhagen. There
was a lot of discussion
going back and forth
when we were writing it up.
And some of the other
guys were more--
wanted to, what should I say,
point more to the implications
of our findings.
And I was-- I wanted it to--
should be strictly scientific.
I mean, we should just
tell about our findings,
our conclusions, and that's it.
And that's about
roughly the same
as Brigham Young asked us to do.
Just to report the facts.
So I was actually
happy with what--
with this-- with Brigham Young.
They were fair.
There were fair.
I certainly understand
the problems
of any academic institution
in the United States
or in Denmark or anywhere in the
Western hemisphere, actually,
when dealing with these matters.
And I must say, for the record,
that Brigham Young acted
honestly and decently
in this-- under the--
under the circumstances.
But Jones were-- went
into premature retirement.
I'm a little bit older.
My-- my point is that I'm saying
that for young scientists-- all
I'm telling my colleagues
here, stay out of this.
It's a very bad career move.
If you have children
or if you're depending
on your salary, don't move.
All this--
LILOU MACE: All this
has an implication
on your personal life, on
your professional life.
Standing in the truth
and what we believe in
is a big one for
a lot of people.
NIELS HARRIT:
Yeah, that's right.
I mean, and in
scientific community
it's a very bad
career move to raise
your voice on the 9/11 issue.
It's a-- it's a--
it's a bloody shame,
and it is actually-- maybe
we should talk about that.
The-- the-- the university
of the-- the academia
of the Western hemisphere
is maybe it is dead.
We are talking about
what we in Europe
call the Humboldt University.
And the name refers to
a German geographer.
Actually, there's a Humboldt
current south of South
America which is in his name.
And he was president of
this university in Berlin
and has given name
to universities
as we used to know
them, as free havens
for thinking and knowledge
and speech, of course.
And it has served us very,
very well for 200 years.
It's good business, actually,
to have places where people are
just accumulating
knowledge and understanding
and eventually rolling
out the principles,
talk about natural
science, which then,
50 years later is going into
technological innovation.
It is under threat
now, and I would
even say that it's eliminated.
Because academia is
being controlled now.
There are different
mechanisms for how
this control is executed.
We had a new law, actually,
for-- for governance of
the Danish universities 2003.
Up to that point.
The University of
Copenhagen is from 1488.
I think it's the next
oldest university in Europe.
The oldest one I think
is in Bologna, in Italy.
So but we are from 1488
and from 1488 to 2003,
the university has
been self-governing,
self-ruling-- how do say it?
Self-administration.
Independent.
We have elected our own leaders.
In 2003, it has been
ruled by the government.
And this is-- has happening all
over in the Western societies.
That's one mechanism.
The other mechanism
lies in the funding,
where the money comes from.
So what I see now is all my
young colleagues literally
applying for their
own salary which makes
them-- nobody rocks the boat.
So don't expect academia to
come out and speak for truth.
You pay a price.
LILOU MACE: Let's go back
to this event in the ashes.
NIELS HARRIT: OK, I'm sorry.
Yeah.
LILOU MACE: No-- no-- no.
It's nothing to apologize for.
This is-- this is-- this
is-- this is excellent.
But going back to the-- to
the ashes and the impact
it has on our
health, on the people
that were there
and the-- the-- not
just the content
of the [INAUDIBLE]
but-- but-- the-- yeah.
The health impact.
NIELS HARRIT: Yeah.
That's another thing,
because the red-gray chips
is-- is a tiny, tiny fraction
of the World Trade Center dust.
The bulk dust is not-- is
very, very bad for breathing.
I mean, you-- you should see
the dust under a microscope,
and you'd just say gosh.
The poor people who was
breathing this stuff.
LILOU MACE: And there
was a lot of it.
We saw a lot of pictures
of-- of many, many people
just covered-- covered.
So thick.
NIELS HARRIT: Yeah.
And in particularly, the
main target group is what
you call the first responders.
This is between 60,000 and
70,000 people who came rushing,
and there's some stories
which are just heartbreaking.
People living in
Pennsylvania or Maryland,
jumping into their
cars, driving,
I don't know how many
miles, to New York City,
and rushing to the site to help.
And they were working around
the clock for days, for weeks,
to help people
find in the rubble.
And then they were
breathing in this stuff.
And they're called
first responders.
And of course, there were all
the firemen, all the policemen,
all the workers on the site.
Many, many thousands
of these people
have come-- become ill because
of breathing this stuff.
It is toxic and poisonous
for a variety of reasons.
First of all,
pulverized concrete is--
I have to use a technical
term now-- it's very--
LILOU MACE: Steel.
Pulverized steel.
NIELS HARRIT: No, no, no.
No, the steel was
not pulverized.
The concrete.
There were concrete slabs in
the building, namely the floors.
They were concrete.
They didn't carry anything.
But the floors were concrete.
It was completely pulverized.
Pulverized concrete-- it's
about 90,000 tons per tower.
Pulverized concrete
is very basic which
means that it actually burns the
lungs when you're breathing it.
There's a certain
threshold from-- from
above which you characterize
this kind of dust as unhealthy.
And below this it is
characterized as healthy.
Now, the agency's the
Environmental Protection
Agency, they deliberately
falsified the samples,
and actually took it
to get the measurement
below the threshold.
That means that they
lied about the health.
But this was a report which
came out later, of course,
in the days when
these things happen.
The Environmental
Protection Agency, they
launched 11 what would you say?
Decoration statements that the
air was healthy to breathe,
because they wanted
to reopen Wall Street.
That's one thing.
But another thing-- and-- and--
and-- other poisonous things
in the dust is pulverized
glass, glass fibers, asbestos.
I've seen it myself.
It's called chrysotile.
And you can see the
asbestos fibers in the dust.
Mercury, all other
metals, and, of course,
all other kind of chemicals.
It's simply not very healthy.
And these people
are getting ill.
I must say-- and they have
fought for more than 10 years
to have medical support,
to have-- these people,
they're taking maybe
50 different kind
of-- of medicine each day.
They can't breathe.
They're dying from very
special kind of cancers related
to the lungs and et cetera.
Recently, Congress have just
passed an act, actually,
according to which these
people are getting medical aid,
but it has taken them
10 years of fight
to actually-- to get just
their-- their-- medical demands
covered.
And it will be taken away
immediately, it's in the act,
if they raise their voice in
criticism of the government
or if they, by any other
means, are characterized as,
should we say, misbehaving?
That is, if any of these
people stand up and testify,
their medical support is
taken away immediately,
and we are talking about
people who are lethally ill.
LILOU MACE: I--I know your
background is-- is science.
But why would this happen?
Why would the US say
government wants that?
Why would they--
why such an event?
Such a moment,
such a day has been
orchestrated and worked on.
NIELS HARRIT: Oh this is.
LILOU MACE: We have
to talk about it.
NIELS HARRIT: Yeah, OK, but
this is beyond, you would say,
my mandate here.
I am here, first of all,
as a concerned scientist.
And I'm-- I'm presenting--
I'm presenting evidence.
The only way where the human
and the grandfather comes in
is that I can say,
I'm opposed to crime.
And killing 3,000 people,
I think, is a crime.
But the event has never been
investigated as a crime.
There has been no
criminal investigation.
with suprema power.
There's been-- usually, when
you investigate a crime,
the police comes in, and they
find some evidence which they
are presented for a grand jury.
And you come up with charges.
You charge somebody.
You take them in or you-- you
want them for-- for trial.
You-- you go to court.
You have a trial.
And you're either
guilty or not guilty.
This has never happened.
We haven't seen any
evidence for the truth
of the official account.
It has never been
investigated as a crime.
Osama bin Laden has never
been wanted for 9/11.
You may not believe
this, but it's true.
He's never been wanted for 9/11.
At some point, in 2005
I think, a journalist--
his name was Ed Haas.
He called FBI and say,
hey, why aren't Osama
bin Laden wanted for 9/11?
And the spokesman from
FBI, his name was Rex Tomb,
he said quite bluntly
because FBI does not
have any hard
evidence connecting
Osama bin Laden with the event.
That's a truth and they're
quite blunt about it.
You go to-- now this.
They say that they killed him.
But if-- if you-- you--
you can see the most
wanted persons from FBI website.
Osama bin Laden, he was wanted
for the attacks in East Africa
and Dar es Salaam
and Nairobi, I think,
and the American embassies, and
for the USS Cole event in Aden.
He was not wanted for
9/11, because they
did not have any hard evidence.
And I think-- so I-- my
only-- you may say political.
I will say ethical
demand here-- is
that we should have a forensic
criminal investigation
of the crime.
And that's it.
LILOU MACE: Well, thank you,
Niels for this interview.
Thank you for showing up.
Thank you to the Danish.
NIELS HARRIT: Yeah.
You're welcome.
Thanks a lot.
LILOU MACE: Much
love from Denmark.
Bye.
Thank you for watching.